Renaissance Technologies LLC, also known as RenTec or RenTech, is an American hedge fund based in East Setauket, New York, on Long Island, that specializes in systematic trading using quantitative models derived from mathematical and statistical analysis. Renaissance was founded in by James Simons, a mathematician who worked as a code breaker during the Cold War. In the firm established the Medallion Fund, a form of Leonard Baum's mathematical models, expanded by algebraist James Ax, to explore correlations from which it could profit. The hedge fund was named Medallion in honor of the math awards Simons and Ax had won. Simons ran Renaissance until his retirement in late He continued to play a role at the firm as non-executive chairman until He remained invested in its funds, particularly the Medallion Fund, until his death in The company is now run by Peter Brown after Robert Mercer resigned; both were computer scientists specializing in computational linguistics who joined Renaissance in from IBM Research. The fund has billion in discretionary assets under management (including leverage) as of April.
A software development process prescribes a process for developing software. It typically divides an overall effort into smaller steps or sub-processes that are intended to ensure high-quality results. The process may describe specific deliverables (artifacts) to be created and completed. Although not strictly limited to it, "software development process" often refers to the high-level process that governs the development of a software system from its beginning to its end of life, known as a methodology, model, or framework. The system development life cycle (SDLC) describes the typical phases that a development effort goes through from the beginning to the end of life for a system, including a software system. A methodology prescribes how engineers go about their work in order to move the system through its life cycle. A methodology is a classification of processes, or a blueprint for a process, that is devised for the SDLC. For example, many processes can be classified as a spiral model. Software process and software quality are closely interrelated; some unexpected facets and effects have been observed in practice.
The literary genre of science fiction is diverse, and its exact definition remains a contested question among both scholars and devotees. This lack of consensus is reflected in debates about the genre's history, particularly over determining its exact origins. There are two broad camps of thought: one that identifies the genre's roots in early fantastical works such as the Sumerian Epic of Gilgamesh (earliest Sumerian text versions c. BCE). A second approach argues that science fiction only became possible sometime between the th and early th centuries, following the Scientific Revolution and major discoveries in astronomy, physics, and mathematics. Science fiction developed and boomed in the th century as the deep integration of science and inventions into daily life encouraged a greater interest in literature that explores the relationship between technology, society, and the individual. Scholar Robert Scholes calls the history of science fiction "the history of humanity's changing attitudes toward space and time... the history of our growing understanding of the universe and the position of our species in that universe." In recent decades, the genre has diversified and become firmly established as a major influence on global culture and thought.
Bioorganic chemistry is a scientific discipline that combines organic chemistry and biochemistry. It is the branch of life science that deals with the study of biological processes using chemical methods. Protein and enzyme function are examples of these processes. Sometimes biochemistry is used interchangeably for bioorganic chemistry; the distinction being that bioorganic chemistry is organic chemistry that is focused on the biological aspects, while biochemistry aims at understanding biological processes using chemistry. Bioorganic chemistry attempts to expand organic chemical researches (that is, structures, synthesis, and kinetics) toward biology. When investigating metalloenzymes and cofactors, bioorganic chemistry overlaps bioinorganic chemistry.
The terms foobar, foo, bar, baz, quux, and others are used as metasyntactic variables in computer programming or computer-related documentation. They have been used to name entities such as variables, functions, and commands whose exact identity is unimportant and serve only to demonstrate a concept.
Biochemistry, or biological chemistry, is the study of chemical processes within and relating to living organisms. A sub-discipline of both chemistry and biology, biochemistry may be divided into three fields: structural biology, enzymology, and metabolism. Over the last decades of the th century, biochemistry has become successful at explaining living processes through these three disciplines. Almost all areas of the life sciences are being uncovered and developed through biochemical methodology and research. Biochemistry focuses on understanding the chemical basis that allows biological molecules to give rise to the processes that occur within living cells and between cells, in turn relating greatly to the understanding of tissues and organs, as well as organism structure and function. Biochemistry is closely related to molecular biology, the study of the molecular mechanisms of biological phenomena. Much of biochemistry deals with the structures, functions, and interactions of biological macromolecules, such as proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, and lipids. They provide the structure of cells and perform many of the functions associated with life. The chemistry of the cell also depends upon the reactions of small molecules and ions. These can be inorganic (for example, water and metal ions) or organic (for example, the amino acids, which are used to synthesize proteins). The mechanisms used by cells to harness energy from their environment via chemical reactions are known as metabolism. The findings of biochemistry are applied primarily in medicine, nutrition, and agriculture. In medicine, biochemists investigate the causes and cures of diseases. Nutrition studies how to maintain health and wellness and also the effects of nutritional deficiencies. In agriculture, biochemists investigate soil and fertilizers with the goal of improving crop cultivation, crop storage, and pest control. In recent decades, biochemical principles and methods have been combined with problem-solving approaches from engineering to manipulate living systems in order to produce useful tools for research, industrial processes, and diagnosis and control of disease: the discipline of biotechnology.
In computer programming, a variable is an abstract storage location paired with an associated symbolic name, which contains some known or unknown quantity of data or object referred to as a "value"; or in simpler terms, a variable is a named container for a particular set of bits or type of data (like integer, float, string, etc... or undefined). A variable can eventually be associated with or identified by a memory address. The variable name is the usual way to reference the stored value, in addition to referring to the variable itself, depending on the context. This separation of name and content allows the name to be used independently of the exact information it represents. The identifier in computer source code can be bound to a value during run-time, and the value of the variable may thus change during the course of program execution. Variables in programming may not directly correspond to the concept of variables in mathematics. The latter is abstract, having no reference to a physical object such as storage location. The value of a computing variable is not necessarily part of an equation or formula as in mathematics. Furthermore, the variables can also be constants, if the value is defined statically. Variables in computer programming are frequently given long names to make them relatively descriptive of their use, whereas variables in mathematics often have terse, one- or two-character names for brevity in transcription and manipulation. A variable's storage location may be referenced by several different identifiers, a situation known as aliasing. Assigning a value to the variable using one of the identifiers will change the value that can be accessed through the other identifiers. Compilers have to replace variables' symbolic names with the actual locations of the data. While a variable's name, type, and location often remain fixed, the data stored in the location may be changed during program execution.
Theoretical physics is a branch of physics that employs mathematical models and abstractions of physical objects and systems to rationalize, explain, and predict natural phenomena. This is in contrast to experimental physics, which uses experimental tools to probe these phenomena. The advancement of science generally depends on the interplay between experimental studies and theory. In some cases, theoretical physics adheres to standards of mathematical rigour while giving little weight to experiments and observations. For example, while developing special relativity, Albert Einstein was concerned with the Lorentz transformation, which left Maxwell's equations invariant, but was apparently uninterested in the Michelson–Morley experiment on Earth's drift through a luminiferous aether. Conversely, Einstein was awarded the Nobel Prize for explaining the photoelectric effect, previously an experimental result lacking a theoretical formulation.
Literary impressionism is influenced by the European Impressionist art movement. As such, many writers adopted a style that relied on associations. The Dutch Tachtigers explicitly tried to incorporate impressionism into their prose, poems, and other literary works. Much of what has been called "impressionist literature" is subsumed into several other categories, especially Symbolism (its chief exponents being Baudelaire, Mallarmé, Rimbaud, Verlaine, and Laforgue) and the Imagists. It focuses on a particular character's perception of events. The edges of reality are blurred by choosing points of view that lie outside the norm. Impressionistic literature can be simply defined as when an author centers their story or attention on the character's mental life, such as the character's impressions, feelings, sensations, and emotions, rather than trying to interpret them. Authors such as Virginia Woolf (Mrs. Dalloway) and Joseph Conrad (Heart of Darkness and "The Lagoon") are among the foremost creators of the form. These novels have been said to be the finest examples of a genre which is not easily comprehensible. The term is used to describe a work of literature characterized by the selection of a few details to convey the sense impressions left by an incident or scene. This style of writing occurs when characters, scenes, or actions are portrayed from a subjective point of view of reality. In Russian literature, the modernist novelist Aleksey Remizov is considered the most impressionist author.
Renaissance art is the painting, sculpture and decorative arts of the period of European history known as the Renaissance, which emerged as a distinct style in Italy in about AD, in parallel with developments which occurred in philosophy, literature, music, science and technology. Renaissance art took as its foundation the art of classical antiquity, perceived as the noblest of ancient traditions, but transformed that tradition by absorbing recent developments in the art of Northern Europe and by applying contemporary scientific knowledge. Along with Renaissance humanist philosophy, it spread throughout Europe, affecting both artists and their patrons with the development of new techniques and new artistic sensibilities. For art historians, Renaissance art marks the transition of Europe from the medieval period to the Early Modern age. The body of art, including painting, sculpture, architecture, music, and literature identified as "Renaissance art" was primarily produced during the th, th, and th centuries in Europe under the combined influences of an increased awareness of nature, a revival of classical learning, and a more individualistic view of man. Scholars no longer believe that the Renaissance marked an abrupt break with medieval values, as is suggested by the French word renaissance, literally meaning "rebirth". In many parts of Europe, Early Renaissance art was created in parallel with Late Medieval art.
Chemistry is the scientific study of the properties and behavior of matter. It is a physical science within the natural sciences that studies the chemical elements that make up matter and compounds made of atoms, molecules and ions: their composition, structure, properties, behavior and the changes they undergo during reactions with other substances. Chemistry also addresses the nature of chemical bonds in chemical compounds. In the scope of its subject, chemistry occupies an intermediate position between physics and biology. It is sometimes called the central science because it provides a foundation for understanding both basic and applied scientific disciplines at a fundamental level. For example, chemistry explains aspects of plant growth (botany), the formation of igneous rocks (geology), how atmospheric ozone is formed and how environmental pollutants are degraded (ecology), the properties of the soil on the moon (cosmochemistry), how medications work (pharmacology), and how to collect DNA evidence at a crime scene (forensics). Chemistry has existed under various names since ancient times. It has evolved and now chemistry encompasses various areas of specialisation, or subdisciplines, that continue to increase in number and interrelate to create further interdisciplinary fields of study. The applications of various fields of chemistry are used frequently for economic purposes in the chemical industry.
Biology is the scientific study of life and living organisms. It is a broad natural science that encompasses a wide range of fields and unifying principles that explain the structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, and distribution of life. Central to biology are five fundamental themes: the cell as the basic unit of life, genes and heredity as the basis of inheritance, evolution as the driver of biological diversity, energy transformation for sustaining life processes, and the maintenance of internal stability (homeostasis). Biology examines life across multiple levels of organization, from molecules and cells to organisms, populations, and ecosystems. Subdisciplines include molecular biology, physiology, ecology, evolutionary biology, developmental biology, and systematics, among others. Each of these fields applies a range of methods to investigate biological phenomena, including observation, experimentation, and mathematical modeling. Modern biology is grounded in the theory of evolution by natural selection, first articulated by Charles Darwin, and in the molecular understanding of genes encoded in DNA. The discovery of the structure of DNA and advances in molecular genetics have transformed many areas of biology, leading to applications in medicine, agriculture, biotechnology, and environmental science. Life on Earth is believed to have originated over billion years ago. Today, it includes a vast diversity of organisms, from single-celled archaea and bacteria to complex multicellular plants, fungi, and animals. Biologists classify organisms based on shared characteristics and evolutionary relationships, using taxonomic and phylogenetic frameworks. These organisms interact with each other and with their environments in ecosystems, where they play roles in energy flow and nutrient cycling. As a constantly evolving field, biology incorporates new discoveries and technologies that enhance the understanding of life and its processes, while contributing to solutions for challenges such as disease, climate change, and biodiversity loss.
The Harlem Renaissance was an intellectual and cultural movement of African American music, dance, art, fashion, literature, theater, politics and scholarship centered in Harlem, Manhattan, New York City, spanning the s and s. At the time, it was known as the "New Negro Movement", named after The New Negro, a anthology edited by Alain Locke. The movement also included the new African American cultural expressions across the urban areas in the Northeastern United States and the Midwestern United States, affected by a renewed militancy in the general struggle for civil rights, combined with the Great Migration of African American workers fleeing the racist conditions of the Jim Crow Deep South, as Harlem was the final destination of the largest number of those who migrated north. Though geographically tied to Harlem, few of the associated visual artists lived in the area itself, while those who did (such as Aaron Douglas) had migrated elsewhere by the end of World War II. Many Francophone black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris, France were also influenced by the movement. Harlem had also seen significant black immigration from British, French, and other colonies in the Caribbean. The zenith of this "flowering of Negro literature," as James Weldon Johnson described the Harlem Renaissance, took place between approximately when Opportunity: A Journal of Negro Life, hosted a party for black writers where many white publishers were in attendance, and the year of the stock-market crash and the beginning of the Great Depression. The Harlem Renaissance is considered to have been a creative crucible for African-American art-making and its institutionalisation within white-dominated museums and cultural institutions.
The English Renaissance was a cultural and artistic movement in England during the late th, th and early th centuries. It is associated with the pan-European Renaissance that is usually regarded as beginning in Italy in the late th century. As in most of the rest of northern Europe, England saw little of these developments until more than a century later. Within the Northern Renaissance, Renaissance style and ideas were slow to penetrate England, and the Elizabethan era in the second half of the th century is usually regarded as the height of the English Renaissance. Many scholars see its beginnings in the early th century during the reign of Henry VIII. Others argue the Renaissance was already present in England in the late th century. The English Renaissance is different from the Italian Renaissance in several ways. The dominant art forms of the English Renaissance were literature and music. Visual arts in the English Renaissance were much less significant than in the Italian Renaissance. The English period began far later than the Italian, which was moving into Mannerism and the Baroque by the s or earlier.
The term Middle English literature refers to the literature written in the form of the English language known as Middle English, from the late th century until the s. During this time the Chancery Standard, a form of London-based English, became widespread and the printing press regularized the language. Between the s and the middle of the following century there was a transition to Early Modern English. In literary terms, the characteristics of the literary works written did not change radically until the effects of the Renaissance and Reformed Christianity became more apparent in the reign of King Henry VIII. There are three main categories of Middle English literature: religious, courtly love, and Arthurian, though much of Geoffrey Chaucer's work stands outside these. Among the many religious works are those in the Katherine Group and the writings of Julian of Norwich and Richard Rolle. After the Norman Conquest of England, Law French became the standard language of courts, parliament, and society. The Norman dialects of the ruling classes mixed with the Anglo-Saxon of the people and became Anglo-Norman, and Anglo-Saxon underwent a gradual transition into Middle English. Around the turn of the thirteenth century, Layamon wrote in Middle English. Other transitional works were popular entertainment, including a variety of romances and lyrics. With time, the English language regained prestige, and in it replaced French and Latin in Parliament and courts of law. Early examples of Middle English literature are The Ormulum and Havelok the Dane. In the fourteenth century, major works of English literature began once again to appear, including the works of Chaucer. The latter portion of the th century also saw the consolidation of English as a written language, and a shift to secular writing. In the late th century, William Caxton printed four-fifths of his works in English, which helped to standardize the language and expand the vocabulary.
Computer science is the study of computation, information, and automation. Computer science spans theoretical disciplines such as algorithms, theory of computation, and information theory, to applied disciplines including the design and implementation of hardware and software. Algorithms and data structures are central to computer science. The theory of computation concerns abstract models of computation and general classes of problems that can be solved using them. The fields of cryptography and computer security involve studying the means for secure communication and for preventing security vulnerabilities. Computer graphics and computational geometry address the generation of images. Programming language theory considers different ways to describe computational processes, and database theory concerns the management of repositories of data. Human–computer interaction investigates the interfaces through which humans and computers interact, and software engineering focuses on the design and principles behind developing software. Areas such as operating systems, networks, and embedded systems investigate the principles and design behind complex systems. Computer architecture describes the construction of computer components and computer-operated equipment. Artificial intelligence and machine learning aim to synthesize goal-orientated processes such as problem-solving, decision-making, environmental adaptation, planning, and learning found in humans and animals. Within artificial intelligence, computer vision aims to understand and process image and video data, while natural language processing aims to understand and process textual and linguistic data. The fundamental concern of computer science is determining what can and cannot be automated. The Turing Award is generally recognized as the highest distinction in computer science
Science fiction (often shortened to sci-fi or abbreviated SF) is the genre of speculative fiction that imagines advanced and futuristic scientific progress and typically includes elements like information technology and robotics, biological manipulations, space exploration, time travel, parallel universes, and extraterrestrial life. The genre often specifically explores human responses to the consequences of these types of projected or imagined scientific advances. Containing many subgenres, science fiction's precise definition has long been disputed among authors, critics, scholars, and readers. Major subgenres include hard science fiction, which emphasizes scientific accuracy, and soft science fiction, which focuses on social sciences. Other notable subgenres are cyberpunk, which explores the interface between technology and society, climate fiction, which addresses environmental issues, and space opera, which emphasizes pure adventure in a universe in which space travel is common. Precedents for science fiction are claimed to exist as far back as antiquity. Some books written in the Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment age were considered early science fantasy stories. The modern genre arose primarily in the th and early th centuries, when popular writers began looking to technological progress for inspiration and speculation. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein, written in is often credited as the first "true" science fiction novel. Jules Verne and H. G. Wells are pivotal figures in the genre's development. In the th century the genre grew during the Golden Age of science fiction. It expanded with the introduction of space operas, dystopian literature, and pulp magazines. Science fiction has come to influence not only literature but also film, television, and culture at large. Science fiction can criticize present-day society and explore alternatives, as well as provide entertainment and inspire a sense of wonder.
Empirical software engineering (ESE), also known as evidence-based software engineering, is a subfield of software engineering (SE) research that uses empirical research methods to study and evaluate SE techniques. These techniques include software development tools, technology, practices, processes, policies, or other human and organizational aspects. ESE has roots in experimental software engineering, but as the field has matured the need and acceptance for both quantitative and qualitative research have grown. Today, common research methods used in ESE for primary and secondary research include the following. Primary research: experimentation, case study research, survey research, simulations (in particular software process simulation). Secondary research methods: systematic reviews, systematic mapping studies, rapid reviews, tertiary review.
Reverse engineering (also known as backwards engineering or back engineering) is a process or method through which one attempts to understand through deductive reasoning how a previously made device, process, system, or piece of software accomplishes a task with very little, if any, insight into exactly how it does so. Depending on the system under consideration and the technologies employed, the knowledge gained during reverse engineering can help with repurposing obsolete objects, doing security analysis, or learning how something works. Although the process is specific to the object on which it is being performed, all reverse engineering processes consist of three basic steps: information extraction, modeling, and review. Information extraction is the practice of gathering all relevant information for performing the operation. Modeling is the practice of combining the gathered information into an abstract model, which can be used as a guide for designing the new object or system. Review is the testing of the model to ensure the validity of the chosen abstract. Reverse engineering is applicable in the fields of computer engineering, mechanical engineering, design, electrical and electronic engineering, civil engineering, nuclear engineering, aerospace engineering, software engineering, chemical engineering, systems biology, and more.
Particle physics or high-energy physics is the study of fundamental particles and forces that constitute matter and radiation. The field also studies combinations of elementary particles up to the scale of protons and neutrons, while the study of combinations of protons and neutrons is called nuclear physics. The fundamental particles in the universe are classified in the Standard Model as fermions (matter particles) and bosons (force-carrying particles). There are three generations of fermions, although ordinary matter is made only from the first fermion generation. The first generation consists of up and down quarks (which form protons and neutrons), and electrons and electron neutrinos. The three fundamental interactions known to be mediated by bosons are electromagnetism, the weak interaction, and the strong interaction. Quarks form hadrons, but cannot exist on their own. Hadrons that contain an odd number of quarks are called baryons, and those that contain an even number are called mesons. Two baryons, the proton and the neutron, make up most of the mass of ordinary matter. Mesons are unstable, and the longest-lived last for only a few hundredths of a microsecond. They occur after collisions between particles made of quarks, such as fast-moving protons and neutrons in cosmic rays. Mesons are also produced in cyclotrons or other particle accelerators. Particles have corresponding antiparticles, with the same mass but with opposite electric charges. For example, the antiparticle of the electron is the positron. The electron has a negative electric charge; the positron has a positive charge. These antiparticles can theoretically form a corresponding form of matter called antimatter. Some particles, such as the photon, are their own antiparticle. These elementary particles are excitations of the quantum fields that also govern their interactions. The dominant theory explaining these fundamental particles and fields, along with their dynamics, is called the Standard Model. The reconciliation of gravity to the current particle physics theory is not solved. Many theories have addressed this problem, such as loop quantum gravity, string theory, and supersymmetry theory. Experimental particle physics is the study of these particles in radioactive processes and in particle accelerators such as the Large Hadron Collider. Theoretical particle physics is the study of these particles in the context of cosmology and quantum theory. The two are closely interrelated. The Higgs boson was postulated theoretically before being confirmed by experiments.
Renaissance architecture is the European architecture of the period between the early th and early th centuries in different regions, demonstrating a conscious revival and development of certain elements of ancient Greek and Roman thought and material culture. Stylistically, Renaissance architecture followed Gothic architecture and was succeeded by Baroque architecture and Neoclassical architecture. Developed first in Florence, with Filippo Brunelleschi as one of its innovators, the Renaissance style quickly spread to other Italian cities. The style was carried to other parts of Europe at different dates and with varying degrees of impact. It began in Florence in the early th century and reflected a revival of classical Greek and Roman principles, such as symmetry, proportion, and geometry. This movement was supported by wealthy patrons, including the Medici family and the Catholic Church, who commissioned works to display both religious devotion and political power. Architects such as Filippo Brunelleschi, Leon Battista Alberti, and later Andrea Palladio revolutionized urban landscapes with domes, columns, and harmonious facades. While Renaissance architecture flourished most in Italy, its influence spread across Europe, reaching France, Spain, and the Low Countries, adapting to local traditions. Public buildings, churches, and palaces became symbols of civic pride and imperial strength, linking humanism with empire-building. Renaissance style places emphasis on symmetry, proportion, geometry and the regularity of parts as demonstrated in the architecture of classical antiquity and in particular ancient Roman architecture of which many examples remained. Orderly arrangements of columns, pilasters and lintels, as well as the use of semicircular arches, hemispherical domes, niches and aediculae, replaced the more complex proportional systems and irregular profiles of medieval buildings.
Molecular biology is a branch of biology that seeks to understand the molecular basis of biological activity in and between cells, including biomolecular synthesis, modification, mechanisms, and interactions. Though cells and other microscopic structures had been observed in organisms as early as the th century, a detailed understanding of the mechanisms and interactions governing their behavior did not emerge until the th century, when technologies used in physics and chemistry had advanced sufficiently to permit their application in the biological sciences. The term "molecular biology" was first used in by the English physicist William Astbury, who described it as an approach focused on discerning the underpinnings of biological phenomena, i.e., uncovering the physical and chemical structures and properties of biological molecules, as well as their interactions with other molecules, and how these interactions explain observations of so-called "classical biology," which instead studies biological processes at larger scales and higher levels of organization. In Francis Crick, James Watson, Rosalind Franklin, and their colleagues at the Medical Research Council unit (Cavendish Laboratory) were the first to describe the double helix model for the chemical structure of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which is often considered a landmark event for the nascent field because it provided a physico-chemical basis by which to understand the previously nebulous idea of nucleic acids as the primary substance of biological inheritance. They proposed this structure based on previous research done by Franklin, which was conveyed to them by Maurice Wilkins and Max Perutz. Their work led to the discovery of DNA in other microorganisms, plants, and animals. The field of molecular biology includes techniques which enable scientists to learn about molecular processes. These techniques are used to efficiently target new drugs, diagnose disease, and better understand cell physiology. Some clinical research and medical therapies arising from molecular biology are covered under gene therapy, whereas the use of molecular biology or molecular cell biology in medicine is now referred to as molecular medicine.
The Renaissance is a period of history and a European cultural movement covering the th and th centuries. It marked the transition from the Middle Ages to modernity and was characterized by an effort to revive and surpass the ideas and achievements of classical antiquity. Associated with great social change in most fields and disciplines, including art, architecture, politics, literature, exploration, and science, the Renaissance was first centered in the Republic of Florence, then spread to the rest of Italy and later throughout Europe. The term rinascita ('rebirth') first appeared in Lives of the Artists (c. ) by Giorgio Vasari, while the corresponding French word renaissance was adopted into English as the term for this period during the s. The Renaissance's intellectual basis was founded in its version of humanism, derived from the concept of Roman humanitas and the rediscovery of classical Greek philosophy, such as that of Protagoras, who said that "Man is the measure of all things." Although the invention of metal movable type sped the dissemination of ideas from the later th century, the changes of the Renaissance were not uniform across Europe. The first traces appear in Italy as early as the late th century, in particular with the writings of Dante and the paintings of Giotto. As a cultural movement, the Renaissance encompassed innovative flowering of literary Latin and an explosion of vernacular literatures, beginning with the th-century resurgence of learning based on classical sources which contemporaries credited to Petrarch; the development of linear perspective and other techniques of rendering a more natural reality in painting; and gradual but widespread educational reform. It saw myriad artistic developments and contributions from such polymaths as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, who inspired the term "Renaissance man". In politics, the Renaissance contributed to the development of the customs and conventions of diplomacy, and in science to an increased reliance on observation and inductive reasoning. The period also saw revolutions in other intellectual and social scientific pursuits, as well as the introduction of modern banking and the field of accounting.
Hard science fiction is a category of science fiction characterized by concern for scientific accuracy and logic. The term was first used in print in by P. Schuyler Miller in a review of John W. Campbell's Islands of Space in the November issue of Astounding Science Fiction. The complementary term, soft science fiction, formed by analogy to the popular distinction between the "hard" (natural) and "soft" (social) sciences, first appeared in the late s, though there are social science examples generally considered as "hard science fiction," such as Isaac Asimov's Foundation series, built on mathematical sociology. Science fiction critic Gary Westfahl argues that while neither term is part of a rigorous taxonomy, they are approximate ways of characterizing stories that reviewers and commentators have found useful.
Indian English literature (IEL), also referred to as Indian Writing in English (IWE), is the body of work by writers in India who write in the English language but whose native or co-native language could be one of the numerous languages of India. Its early history began with the works of Henry Louis Vivian Derozio and Michael Madhusudan Dutt, followed by Rabindranath Tagore and Sri Aurobindo. R. K. Narayan, Mulk Raj Anand, and Raja Rao contributed to the growth and popularity of Indian English fiction in the s. It is also associated in some cases with the works of members of the Indian diaspora who subsequently compose works in English. It is often referred to as Indo-Anglian literature, a writing-specific term not to be confused with Anglo-Indian, although some works may be classified under the genre of postcolonial literature. Indian English literature, evolving since the late th century, encompasses diverse themes and ideologies, making strict categorization challenging.
English literature is a form of literature written in the English language from the English-speaking world. The English language has developed over more than years. The earliest forms of English, a set of Anglo-Frisian dialects brought to Great Britain by Anglo-Saxon settlers in the fifth century, are called Old English. Beowulf is the most famous work in Old English; despite being set in Scandinavia, it has achieved national epic status in England. However, following the Norman Conquest of England in the written form of the Anglo-Saxon language became less common. Under the influence of the new aristocracy, French became the standard language of courts, parliament, and polite society. The English spoken after the Normans came is known as Middle English. This form of English lasted until the s, when the Chancery Standard (late Middle English), a London-based form of English, became widespread. Geoffrey Chaucer, author of The Canterbury Tales, was a significant figure in developing the legitimacy of vernacular Middle English at a time when the dominant literary languages in England were still French and Latin. The invention of the printing press by Johannes Gutenberg in also helped to standardise the language, as did the King James Bible and the Great Vowel Shift. Poet and playwright William Shakespeare is widely regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and one of the world's greatest dramatists. His plays have been translated into every primary living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. In the nineteenth century, Sir Walter Scott's historical romances inspired a generation of European painters, composers, and writers. The English language spread throughout the world with the development of the British Empire between the late th and early th centuries. At its height, it was the largest empire in history. By the British Empire held sway over million people, of the world population at the time. During the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, these colonies and the U.S. started to produce their own significant literary traditions in English. Cumulatively, from to the present, writers from Great Britain, Northern Ireland, and the Republic of Ireland, the U.S., and former British colonies have received the Nobel Prize in Literature for works in English more than in any other language.
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry (Swedish: Nobelpriset i kemi) is awarded annually by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences to scientists in the various fields of chemistry. It is one of the five Nobel Prizes established by the will of Alfred Nobel in awarded for outstanding contributions in chemistry, physics, literature, peace, and physiology or medicine. This award is administered by the Nobel Foundation and awarded by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences on proposal of the Nobel Committee for Chemistry which consists of five members elected by the Academy. The award is presented in Stockholm at an annual ceremony on December the anniversary of Nobel's death. The first Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded in to Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff of the Netherlands, for his discovery of the laws of chemical dynamics and osmotic pressure in solutions. From to the award has been bestowed on a total of individuals. The Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Demis Hassabis and John M. Jumper for protein structure prediction, and to David Baker for computational protein design. As of eight women had won the prize: Marie Curie, her daughter Irène Joliot-Curie, Dorothy Hodgkin, Ada Yonath, Frances Arnold, Emmanuelle Charpentier, and Jennifer Doudna, and Carolyn R. Bertozzi.
Biology is the scientific study of life and living organisms. It is a broad natural science that encompasses a wide range of fields and unifying principles that explain the structure, function, growth, origin, evolution, and distribution of life. Central to biology are five fundamental themes: the cell as the basic unit of life, genes and heredity as the basis of inheritance, evolution as the driver of biological diversity, energy transformation for sustaining life processes, and the maintenance of internal stability (homeostasis). Biology examines life across multiple levels of organization, from molecules and cells to organisms, populations, and ecosystems. Subdisciplines include molecular biology, physiology, ecology, evolutionary biology, developmental biology, and systematics, among others. Each of these fields applies a range of methods to investigate biological phenomena, including observation, experimentation, and mathematical modeling. Modern biology is grounded in the theory of evolution by natural selection, first articulated by Charles Darwin, and in the molecular understanding of genes encoded in DNA. The discovery of the structure of DNA and advances in molecular genetics have transformed many areas of biology, leading to applications in medicine, agriculture, biotechnology, and environmental science. Life on Earth is believed to have originated over billion years ago. Today, it includes a vast diversity of organisms, from single-celled archaea and bacteria to complex multicellular plants, fungi, and animals. Biologists classify organisms based on shared characteristics and evolutionary relationships, using taxonomic and phylogenetic frameworks. These organisms interact with each other and with their environments in ecosystems, where they play roles in energy flow and nutrient cycling. As a constantly evolving field, biology incorporates new discoveries and technologies that enhance the understanding of life and its processes, while contributing to solutions for challenges such as disease, climate change, and biodiversity loss.
Quantum mechanics is the fundamental physical theory that describes the behavior of matter and of light. Its unusual characteristics typically occur at and below the scale of atoms. It is the foundation of all quantum physics, which includes quantum chemistry, quantum biology, quantum field theory, quantum technology, and quantum information science. Quantum mechanics can describe many systems that classical physics cannot. Classical physics can describe many aspects of nature at an ordinary (macroscopic and optical microscopic) scale, but is not sufficient for describing them at very small (submicroscopic: atomic and subatomic) scales. Classical mechanics can be derived from quantum mechanics as an approximation that is valid at ordinary scales. Quantum systems have bound states that are quantized to discrete values of energy, momentum, angular momentum, and other quantities, in contrast to classical systems where these quantities can be measured continuously. Measurements of quantum systems show characteristics of both particles and waves (wave–particle duality), and there are limits to how accurately the value of a physical quantity can be predicted prior to its measurement, given a complete set of initial conditions (the uncertainty principle). Quantum mechanics arose gradually from theories to explain observations that could not be reconciled with classical physics, such as Max Planck's solution in to the black-body radiation problem, and the correspondence between energy and frequency in Albert Einstein's paper, which explained the photoelectric effect. These early attempts to understand microscopic phenomena, now known as the "old quantum theory", led to the full development of quantum mechanics in the mid-s by Niels Bohr, Erwin Schrödinger, Werner Heisenberg, Max Born, Paul Dirac, and others. The modern theory is formulated in various specially developed mathematical formalisms. In one of them, a mathematical entity called the wave function provides information, in the form of probability amplitudes, about what measurements of a particle's energy, momentum, and other physical properties may yield.
Science fiction first appeared in television programming in the late s, during what is called the "Golden Age of Science Fiction". Special effects and other production techniques allow creators to present a living, visual image of an imaginary world not limited by the constraints of reality.
Evolutionary biology is a subfield of biology that analyzes the four mechanisms of evolution: natural selection, mutation, genetic drift. The purpose of evolutionary biology is to observe the diversity of life on earth. The idea of natural selection was first researched by Charles Darwin as he studied bird beaks. The discipline of evolutionary biology emerged through what Julian Huxley called the modern synthesis of understanding from previously unrelated fields of biological research, such as genetics and ecology, systematics and paleontology. Huxley was able to take what Charles Darwin discovered and elaborate to build on his understandings. The investigational range of current research has widened to encompass the genetic architecture of adaptation, molecular evolution, and the different forces that contribute to evolution, such as sexual selection, genetic drift, and biogeography. The newer field of evolutionary developmental biology (evo-devo) investigates how embryogenesis is controlled, thus yielding a wider synthesis that integrates developmental biology with the fields of study covered by the earlier evolutionary synthesis.
Literary impressionism is influenced by the European Impressionist art movement. As such, many writers adopted a style that relied on associations. The Dutch Tachtigers explicitly tried to incorporate impressionism into their prose, poems, and other literary works. Much of what has been called "impressionist literature" is subsumed into several other categories, especially Symbolism (its chief exponents being Baudelaire, Mallarmé, Rimbaud, Verlaine, and Laforgue) and the Imagists. It focuses on a particular character's perception of events. The edges of reality are blurred by choosing points of view that lie outside the norm. Impressionistic literature can be simply defined as when an author centers their story or attention on the character's mental life, such as the character's impressions, feelings, sensations, and emotions, rather than trying to interpret them. Authors such as Virginia Woolf (Mrs. Dalloway) and Joseph Conrad (Heart of Darkness and "The Lagoon") are among the foremost creators of the form. These novels have been said to be the finest examples of a genre which is not easily comprehensible. The term is used to describe a work of literature characterized by the selection of a few details to convey the sense impressions left by an incident or scene. This style of writing occurs when characters, scenes, or actions are portrayed from a subjective point of view of reality. In Russian literature, the modernist novelist Aleksey Remizov is considered the most impressionist author.
Impressionism in music was a movement among various composers in Western classical music (mainly during the late th and early th centuries) whose music focuses on mood and atmosphere, "conveying the moods and emotions aroused by the subject rather than a detailed tone-picture". Impressionism is a philosophical and aesthetic term borrowed from late th-century French painting after Monet's Impression, Sunrise. Composers were labeled impressionists by analogy to the impressionist painters who use starkly contrasting colors, effect of light on an object, blurry foreground and background, flattening perspective, etc. to make the observer focus their attention on the overall impression. The most prominent feature in musical impressionism is the use of "color", or in musical terms, timbre, which can be achieved through orchestration, harmonic usage, texture, etc. Other elements of musical impressionism also involve new chord combinations, ambiguous tonality, extended harmonies, use of modes and exotic scales, parallel motion, extra-musicality, and evocative titles such as Reflets dans l'eau ("Reflections on the water"), Brouillards ("Mists"), etc.
Chemistry (styled as CHEMISTRY) is a Japanese pop duo, consisting of Yoshikuni Dōchin (born November ) and Kaname Kawabata (born January ).
Social software engineering (SSE) is a branch of software engineering that is concerned with the social aspects of software development and the developed software. SSE focuses on the "socialness" of both software engineering and developed software. On the one hand, the consideration of social factors in software engineering activities, processes and case tools is deemed to be useful to improve the quality of both development process and produced software. Examples include the role of situational awareness and multi-cultural factors in collaborative software development. On the other hand, the dynamicity of the social contexts in which software could operate (e.g., in a cloud environment) calls for engineering social adaptability as a runtime iterative activity. Examples include approaches which enable software to gather users' quality feedback and use it to adapt autonomously or semi-autonomously. SSE studies and builds socially-oriented tools to support collaboration and knowledge sharing in software engineering. SSE also investigates the adaptability of software to the dynamic social contexts in which it could operate and the involvement of clients and end-users in shaping software adaptation decisions at runtime. "Social context" includes norms, culture, roles and responsibilities, stakeholder's goals and interdependencies, end-users' perception of the quality and appropriateness of each software behaviour, etc. The participants of the st International Workshop on Social Software Engineering and Applications (SoSEA) proposed the following characterization: "Community-centered software is produced and consumed by and/or for a community rather than focusing on individuals; Collaboration, Collectiveness: exploiting the collaborative and collective capacity of human beings; Companionship, Relationship: making explicit the various associations among people; Human, social activities: software is designed consciously to support human activities and to address social problems; Social inclusion: software should enable social inclusion, enforcing links and trust in communities." Thus, SSE can be defined as "the application of processes, methods and tools to enable community-driven creation, management, deployment, and use of software in online environments". One of the main observations in the field of SSE is that the concepts, principles and technologies made for social software applications are applicable to software development itself, as software engineering is inherently a social activity. SSE is not limited to specific activities of software development. Accordingly, tools have been proposed supporting different parts of SSE, for instance, social system design or social requirements engineering. Consequently, vertical market software, such as software development tools, engineering tools, marketing tools, or software that helps users in a decision-making process, can profit from social components. Such vertical social software differentiates strongly in its user base from traditional social software such as Yammer.
Science fiction (or sci-fi) is a film genre that uses speculative, science-based depictions of phenomena that are not fully accepted by mainstream science, such as extraterrestrial lifeforms, spacecraft, robots, cyborgs, mutants, interstellar travel, time travel, or other technologies. Science fiction films have often been used to focus on political or social issues, and to explore philosophical issues like the human condition. The genre has existed since the early years of silent cinema, when Georges Méliès's A Trip to the Moon employed trick photography effects. The next major example (first in feature-length) in the genre was the film Metropolis. From the s to the s, the genre consisted mainly of low-budget B movies. After Stanley Kubrick's landmark A Space Odyssey, the science fiction film genre was taken more seriously. In the late s, big-budget science fiction films filled with special effects became popular with audiences after the success of Star Wars and paved the way for the blockbuster hits of subsequent decades. Screenwriter and scholar Eric R. Williams identifies science fiction films as one of eleven super-genres in his screenwriters' taxonomy, stating that all feature-length narrative films can be classified by these super-genres. The other ten super-genres are Action, Crime, Fantasy, Horror, Romance, Slice of Life, Sports, Thriller, War, and Western.
Family (Latin: familia, pl. familiae) is one of the eight major hierarchical taxonomic ranks in Linnaean taxonomy; it is classified between order and genus. A family may be divided into subfamilies, which are intermediate ranks between the ranks of family and genus. The official family names are Latin in origin; however, popular names are often used: for example, walnut trees and hickory trees belong to the family Juglandaceae, but that family is commonly referred to as the "walnut family". The delineation of what constitutes a family, or whether a described family should be acknowledged, is established and decided upon by active taxonomists. There are not strict regulations for outlining or acknowledging a family, yet in the realm of plants, these classifications often rely on both the vegetative and reproductive characteristics of plant species. Taxonomists frequently hold varying perspectives on these descriptions, leading to a lack of widespread consensus.
Computer science and engineering (CSE) is an academic subject comprising approaches of computer science and computer engineering. There is no clear division in computing between science and engineering, just like in the field of Materials Science and Engineering. However, some classes are historically more related to computer science (e.g., data structures and algorithms) and other to computer engineering (e.g., computer architecture). CSE is also a term often used in Europe to translate the name of technical or engineering informatics academic programs. It is offered in both undergraduate as well postgraduate, with specializations.
Old English literature refers to poetry (alliterative verse) and prose written in Old English in early medieval England from the th century to the decades after the Norman Conquest of A period often termed Anglo-Saxon England. The th-century work Cædmon's Hymn is often considered as the oldest surviving poem in English as it appears in an th-century copy of Bede's text The Ecclesiastical History of the English People. Poetry written in the mid-th century represents some of the latest post-Norman examples of Old English. Adherence to the grammatical rules of Old English is largely inconsistent in th century work, and by the th century the grammar and syntax of Old English had almost completely deteriorated, giving way to the much larger Middle English corpus of literature. In descending order of quantity, Old English literature consists of: sermons and saints' lives; biblical translations; translated Latin works of the early Church Fathers; chronicles and narrative history works; laws, wills and other legal works; practical works on grammar, medicine, and geography; and poetry. In all there are over surviving manuscripts from the period, of which about are considered "major". In addition, some Old English text survives on stone structures and ornate objects. The poem Beowulf, which often begins the traditional canon of English literature, is the most famous work of Old English literature. The Anglo-Saxon Chronicle has also proven significant for historical study, preserving a chronology of early English history. In addition to Old English literature, Anglo-Latin works comprise the largest volume of literature from the Early Middle Ages in England.
the year a pioneering English farmer called Jethro Tull made a historic invention By modern standards it was a fairly simple device a wheeled machine that allowed farmers to sow seeds in rows in their fields rather than scattering them by hand Yet the impact of Tull s seed drill was monumental Mechanised sowing was much faster and used far less seed than traditional broadcasting by hand It allowed farms to became bigger and more efficient while requiring fewer workers than in the past In short it was one of the small details that precipitated a massive social change allowing Britain to begin transitioning from an agricultural economy to an industrial economy Best sellers from Linguapress Linguapress titles available worldwide from Amazon Barnes Noble Blackwells and other outlets It was the start of the Industrial Revolution a historic process whereby traditional rural economies were replaced by a new economic model based on cities and industry The process started in Britain but why Britain What was special about Britain in those times Like other European countries Britain had begun in the th century to set up the bases of a new commercial economy The first banks had been founded London had acquired a stock exchange and other trading institutions and international trade was developing But what set Britain apart from other countries notably France and Spain was that at the same time Britain also developed other key institutions and social features that would stimulate change a parliamentary system with political parties more and more public schools to educate a part of the population and above all a Protestant ethic which encouraged innovation science work and the generation of wealth Eight years after Tull invented the seed drill a Quaker ironmaster called Abraham Darby developed a new method of smelting iron using coke instead of charcoal This was a pivotal breakthrough Coke made from coal was cheaper and far more available than ch arcoal which came from wood People in Europe had been making things out of iron since prehistoric times but until Darby came up with his new process making iron was a cottage industry concentrated in forests where there was plenty of wood Thanks to Darby it could move away from forests and rivers and set up production in places where there were large deposits of iron and coal From then on iron could be produced on a much larger scale and at lower costs And significantly new larger ironworks could make much larger objects than in the past Iron became a building material stronger and more versatile than wood Offering employment for some of the men driven away from rural areas as a result of the mechanisation of agriculture new larger industrial ironworks stimulated a rural exodus that was to transform society in Britain over the following two hundred years However more changes more inventions were needed before the new industrial age could really develop fortunately the inventions kept coming Water was the source of power in the first industrial factories here at Cromford Mill now a UNESCO world heritage site One of Britain s major traditional industries was weaving making cloth that was later transformed into clothes and fabrics Until the middle of the th century this work was done by people working at home but then in quick succession three more inventions allowed the mechanisation of textile production in Britain Within a generation the textile industry had moved out of homes and cottages and into large new factories or mills as they were called at the time The first mills were set up next to rivers as they needed water power to drive the new mechanical looms but the age of water power was coming to an end By the middle of the century the power of steam was already being used and in a man called James Watt discovered how to harness steam power to turn wheels From then on most of the ingredients needed for the development of Britain s industrial economy were in place new factories where goods could be produced cheaply and in large quantities people to work in the factories and abundant sources of energy coal to drive the new machines with rotary motion which were essential in most new industrial processes All that was lacking was a transport system that could move large volumes of goods from the factories and mines which were mostly in the north and middle of England to the consumers in other parts of the country Until the eighteenth century most goods what we would today call consumer products were made and sold locally With the transport systems of the pre industrial age it was not easy to move goods in large quantities from the place of production to distant places of consumption The roads of the time and the few new canals were totally inadequate and transport was very slow and dangerous Nevertheless being an island Britain already had one big advantage over the countries of continental Europe goods could be transported quite easily and in larger quantities around the coast Indeed since the th century people in London had been burning coal mined near Newcastle miles away in the northeast of England But few coal mines were at the seaside most of them and most factories were inland A new faster and more direct transport network was required It did not take long to appear In the year a Cornish engineer called Richard Trevithick adapted Watt s steam engine to create the world s first steam powered vehicle Within twenty years the first railways were being built The first intercity passenger railway between the industrial cities of Liverpool and Manchester opened in from then on everything was in place for the development of the new industrial economy Being the world s first industrial economy Britain remained the main economic power for almost a century Yet other countries were looking on and adapting their economies too Though the British industrial economy kept growing throughout the th century other countries were catching up and by both Germany and the United States were vying for the position of world s leading economy Slowly the relative importance of the British economy declined and after the industrial age drew to an end in the s the decline continued Today Britain remains among the top six or seven economic powers in the world but the era when it led the world is now well in the past
Born in the town of Reading Pennsylvania on December Taylor Swift is unquestionably the most influential musician of her generation Arguably she is the most significant female singer ever and has had more influence on the music of her age than any other artists since the Beatles the Rolling Stones and Bob Dylan half a century earlier Her success is largely down to the absolute support of her family and notably of her parents who were the world s first Swifties From a very early age they recognized that their daughter had exceptional talents It helped that Taylor s mother worked in marketing and her dad was a financial manager they recognized an opportunity when they saw one and knew how to develop it As a small child Taylor was encouraged to follow her artistic interests She loved storytelling and singing and was particularly fond of Shania Twain the Canadian singer who helped put pop into American country music By the age of she was already writing her first songs and performing in public Convinced that their daughter really did have talent her parents moved the family home from Pennsylvania to Henderson near Nashville Tennessee the capital of country music For two years Taylor went to Henderson High School but after that she was home schooled as it was becoming harder and harder to reconcile the demands of a regular high school education with her musical commitments Taylor s career took off when she signed with a new independent record company Big Machine Records at the age of In she released her eponymous debut album demonstrating her talent as a singer songwriter and quickly gained popularity on the country music scene The single Tim McGraw about a popular country music singer which Taylor had written when she was received great critical acclaim Two years later Taylor s second album Fearless catapulted her into stardom With hits like Love Story and You Belong with Me Swift received multiple awards including four Grammys By the time Speak Now her third album came out in Taylor Swift had firmly established herself as a major artist in both country and pop music The album entirely penned by her included hits like Back to December and Mean In true country style many of Taylor s songs told a story and were personal endearing her to her growing number of fans But while country music was largely an American genre popular in the USA but not so popular elsewhere Taylor was acquiring fans all over the world And echoing the way that Bob Dylan with his album Like a Rolling Stone transitioned from folk to rock Taylor s album marked her transition from country music to the mainstream of world pop music The album s lead single Shake It Off reached no worldwide and marked the start of a new stage in her career As her career flourished Swift also discovered the downsides to being a celebrity In public controversies including her high profile disputes with other celebrities forced her to reflect on the darker side of celebrity culture Swift used these reflections as fuel for her next album Reputation a more introspective work that explored themes of love betrayal and resilience Yet in Swift surprised fans again by releasing Lover an album that returned to the romantic themes of country music while reflecting on important issues such as women s rights and other social causes The COVID pandemic in prompted many artists to reevaluate their music and Swift was no exception She released two surprise albums Folklore and Evermore returning to a calmer folk sound that contrasted sharply with her previous works These albums received widespread critical acclaim all over the world even though they marked a departure from her mainstream pop sound In addition to her musical achievements Taylor Swift has also made headlines by campaigning for a fairer music industry Her highly publicized disputes with record labels about the ownership of her music catalog led her to re record her earlier albums including Fearless and Red This move was viewed not only as a reclaiming of her artistic identity but also as a powerful statement in support of artists rights Throughout her career Taylor Swift has won more major awards than any other contemporary musician Yet beyond the media hype her true legacy lies in her ability to connect with millions of fans through her music and stories Whether through her memorable lyrics or through speaking up on important social issues Swift has become a voice for a generation a worldwide generation of fans from children and teens to parents and grand parents I just love Taylor Swift says year old Marianne And my Aunty Kay s a Swiftie too She flew over to London from Canada just to go to her latest gig at Wembley Stadium She came all that way for the concert
I drove at once to Hillingham and arrived early Keeping my cab at the gate I went up the avenue alone I knocked gently and rang as quietly as possible for I feared to disturb Lucy or her mother and hoped to only bring a servant to the door After a while finding no response I knocked and rang again still no answer I cursed the laziness of the servants that they should lie abed at such an hour for it was now ten o’clock and so rang and knocked again but more impatiently but still without response Hitherto I had blamed only the servants but now a terrible fear began to assail me Was this desolation but another link in the chain of doom which seemed drawing tight around us Was it indeed a house of death to which I had come too late I knew that minutes even seconds of delay might mean hours of danger to Lucy if she had had again one of those frightful relapses and I went round the house to try if I could find by chance an entry anywhere
I could find no means of ingress Every window and door was fastened and locked and I returned baffled to the porch As I did so I heard the rapid pit-pat of a swiftly driven horse’s feet They stopped at the gate and a few seconds later I met Van Helsing running up the avenue When he saw me he gasped out
“Then it was you and just arrived How is she Are we too late Did you not get my telegram”
I answered as quickly and coherently as I could that I had only got his telegram early in the morning and had not lost a minute in coming here and that I could not make any one in the house hear me He paused and raised his hat as he said solemnly
“Then I fear we are too late God’s will be done” With his usual recuperative energy he went on “Come If there be no way open to get in we must make one Time is all in all to us now”
We went round to the back of the house where there was a kitchen window The Professor took a small surgical saw from his case and handing it to me pointed to the iron bars which guarded the window I attacked them at once and had very soon cut through three of them Then with a long thin knife we pushed back the fastening of the sashes and opened the window I helped the Professor in and followed him There was no one in the kitchen or in the servants rooms which were close at hand We tried all the rooms as we went along and in the dining-room dimly lit by rays of light through the shutters found four servant-women lying on the floor There was no need to think them dead for their stertorous breathing and the acrid smell of laudanum in the room left no doubt as to their condition Van Helsing and I looked at each other and as we moved away he said “We can attend to them later” Then we ascended to Lucy’s room For an instant or two we paused at the door to listen but there was no sound that we could hear With white faces and trembling hands we opened the door gently and entered the room
How shall I describe what we saw On the bed lay two women Lucy and her mother The latter lay farthest in and she was covered with a white sheet the edge of which had been blown back by the draught through the broken window showing the drawn white face with a look of terror fixed upon it By her side lay Lucy with face white and still more drawn The flowers which had been round her neck we found upon her mother’s bosom and her throat was bare showing the two little wounds which we had noticed before but looking horribly white and mangled Without a word the Professor bent over the bed his head almost touching poor Lucy’s breast then he gave a quick turn of his head as of one who listens and leaping to his feet he cried out to me
“It is not yet too late Quick quick Bring the brandy”
I flew downstairs and returned with it taking care to smell and taste it lest it too were drugged like the decanter of sherry which I found on the table The maids were still breathing but more restlessly and I fancied that the narcotic was wearing off I did not stay to make sure but returned to Van Helsing He rubbed the brandy as on another occasion on her lips and gums and on her wrists and the palms of her hands He said to me
“I can do this all that can be at the present You go wake those maids Flick them in the face with a wet towel and flick them hard Make them get heat and fire and a warm bath This poor soul is nearly as cold as that beside her She will need be heated before we can do anything more”
I went at once and found little difficulty in waking three of the women The fourth was only a young girl and the drug had evidently affected her more strongly so I lifted her on the sofa and let her sleep The others were dazed at first but as remembrance came back to them they cried and sobbed in a hysterical manner I was stern with them however and would not let them talk I told them that one life was bad enough to lose and that if they delayed they would sacrifice Miss Lucy So sobbing and crying they went about their way half clad as they were and prepared fire and water Fortunately the kitchen and boiler fires were still alive and there was no lack of hot water We got a bath and carried Lucy out as she was and placed her in it Whilst we were busy chafing her limbs there was a knock at the hall door One of the maids ran off hurried on some more clothes and opened it Then she returned and whispered to us that there was a gentleman who had come with a message from Mr Holmwood I bade her simply tell him that he must wait for we could see no one now She went away with the message and engrossed with our work I clean forgot all about him
I never saw in all my experience the Professor work in such deadly earnest I knew as he knew that it was a stand-up fight with death and in a pause told him so He answered me in a way that I did not understand but with the sternest look that his face could wear
“If that were all I would stop here where we are now and let her fade away into peace for I see no light in life over her horizon” He went on with his work with if possible renewed and more frenzied vigour
Presently we both began to be conscious that the heat was beginning to be of some effect Lucy’s heart beat a trifle more audibly to the stethoscope and her lungs had a perceptible movement Van Helsing’s face almost beamed and as we lifted her from the bath and rolled her in a hot sheet to dry her he said to me
“The first gain is ours Check to the King”
We took Lucy into another room which had by now been prepared and laid her in bed and forced a few drops of brandy down her throat I noticed that Van Helsing tied a soft silk handkerchief round her throat She was still unconscious and was quite as bad as if not worse than we had ever seen her
Van Helsing called in one of the women and told her to stay with her and not to take her eyes off her till we returned and then beckoned me out of the room
“We must consult as to what is to be done” he said as we descended the stairs In the hall he opened the dining-room door and we passed in he closing the door carefully behind him The shutters had been opened but the blinds were already down with that obedience to the etiquette of death which the British woman of the lower classes always rigidly observes The room was therefore dimly dark It was however light enough for our purposes Van Helsing’s sternness was somewhat relieved by a look of perplexity He was evidently torturing his mind about something so I waited for an instant and he spoke
“What are we to do now Where are we to turn for help We must have another transfusion of blood and that soon or that poor girl’s life won’t be worth an hour’s purchase You are exhausted already I am exhausted too I fear to trust those women even if they would have courage to submit What are we to do for some one who will open his veins for her”
“What’s the matter with me anyhow”
The voice came from the sofa across the room and its tones brought relief and joy to my heart for they were those of Quincey Morris Van Helsing started angrily at the first sound but his face softened and a glad look came into his eyes as I cried out “Quincey Morris” and rushed towards him with outstretched hands
“What brought you here” I cried as our hands met
“I guess Art is the cause”
He handed me a telegram
“Have not heard from Seward for three days and am terribly anxious Cannot leave Father still in same condition Send me word how Lucy is Do not delay—Holmwood”
“I think I came just in the nick of time You know you have only to tell me what to do”
Van Helsing strode forward and took his hand looking him straight in the eyes as he said
“A brave man’s blood is the best thing on this earth when a woman is in trouble You’re a man and no mistake Well the devil may work against us for all he’s worth but God sends us men when we want them”
Once again we went through that ghastly operation I have not the heart to go through with the details Lucy had got a terrible shock and it told on her more than before for though plenty of blood went into her veins her body did not respond to the treatment as well as on the other occasions Her struggle back into life was something frightful to see and hear However the action of both heart and lungs improved and Van Helsing made a subcutaneous injection of morphia as before and with good effect Her faint became a profound slumber The Professor watched whilst I went downstairs with Quincey Morris and sent one of the maids to pay off one of the cabmen who were waiting I left Quincey lying down after having a glass of wine and told the cook to get ready a good breakfast Then a thought struck me and I went back to the room where Lucy now was When I came softly in I found Van Helsing with a sheet or two of note-paper in his hand He had evidently read it and was thinking it over as he sat with his hand to his brow There was a look of grim satisfaction in his face as of one who has had a doubt solved He handed me the paper saying only “It dropped from Lucy’s breast when we carried her to the bath”
When I had read it I stood looking at the Professor and after a pause asked him “In God’s name what does it all mean Was she or is she mad or what sort of horrible danger is it” I was so bewildered that I did not know what to say more Van Helsing put out his hand and took the paper saying
“Do not trouble about it now Forget it for the present You shall know and understand it all in good time but it will be later And now what is it that you came to me to say” This brought me back to fact and I was all myself again
“I came to speak about the certificate of death If we do not act properly and wisely there may be an inquest and that paper would have to be produced I am in hopes that we need have no inquest for if we had it would surely kill poor Lucy if nothing else did I know and you know and the other doctor who attended her knows that Mrs Westenra had disease of the heart and we can certify that she died of it Let us fill up the certificate at once and I shall take it myself to the registrar and go on to the undertaker”
“Good oh my friend John Well thought of Truly Miss Lucy if she be sad in the foes that beset her is at least happy in the friends that love her One two three all open their veins for her besides one old man Ah yes I know friend John I am not blind I love you all the more for it Now go”
In the hall I met Quincey Morris with a telegram for Arthur telling him that Mrs Westenra was dead that Lucy also had been ill but was now going on better and that Van Helsing and I were with her I told him where I was going and he hurried me out but as I was going said
“When you come back Jack may I have two words with you all to ourselves” I nodded in reply and went out I found no difficulty about the registration and arranged with the local undertaker to come up in the evening to measure for the coffin and to make arrangements
When I got back Quincey was waiting for me I told him I would see him as soon as I knew about Lucy and went up to her room She was still sleeping and the Professor seemingly had not moved from his seat at her side From his putting his finger to his lips I gathered that he expected her to wake before long and was afraid of forestalling nature So I went down to Quincey and took him into the breakfast-room where the blinds were not drawn down and which was a little more cheerful or rather less cheerless than the other rooms When we were alone he said to me
“Jack Seward I don’t want to shove myself in anywhere where I’ve no right to be but this is no ordinary case You know I loved that girl and wanted to marry her but although that’s all past and gone I can’t help feeling anxious about her all the same What is it that’s wrong with her The Dutchman and a fine old fellow he is I can see that said that time you two came into the room that you must have another transfusion of blood and that both you and he were exhausted Now I know well that you medical men speak in camera and that a man must not expect to know what they consult about in private But this is no common matter and whatever it is I have done my part Is not that so”
“That’s so” I said and he went on
“I take it that both you and Van Helsing had done already what I did to-day Is not that so”
“That’s so”
“And I guess Art was in it too When I saw him four days ago down at his own place he looked queer I have not seen anything pulled down so quick since I was on the Pampas and had a mare that I was fond of go to grass all in a night One of those big bats that they call vampires had got at her in the night and what with his gorge and the vein left open there wasn’t enough blood in her to let her stand up and I had to put a bullet through her as she lay Jack if you may tell me without betraying confidence Arthur was the first is not that so” As he spoke the poor fellow looked terribly anxious He was in a torture of suspense regarding the woman he loved and his utter ignorance of the terrible mystery which seemed to surround her intensified his pain His very heart was bleeding and it took all the manhood of him and there was a royal lot of it too to keep him from breaking down I paused before answering for I felt that I must not betray anything which the Professor wished kept secret but already he knew so much and guessed so much that there could be no reason for not answering so I answered in the same phrase “That’s so”
“And how long has this been going on”
“About ten days”
“Ten days Then I guess Jack Seward that that poor pretty creature that we all love has had put into her veins within that time the blood of four strong men Man alive her whole body wouldn’t hold it” Then coming close to me he spoke in a fierce half-whisper “What took it out”
I shook my head “That” I said “is the crux Van Helsing is simply frantic about it and I am at my wits’ end I can’t even hazard a guess There has been a series of little circumstances which have thrown out all our calculations as to Lucy being properly watched But these shall not occur again Here we stay until all be well or ill” Quincey held out his hand “Count me in” he said “You and the Dutchman will tell me what to do and I’ll do it”
When she woke late in the afternoon Lucy’s first movement was to feel in her breast and to my surprise produced the paper which Van Helsing had given me to read The careful Professor had replaced it where it had come from lest on waking she should be alarmed Her eye then lit on Van Helsing and on me too and gladdened Then she looked around the room and seeing where she was shuddered she gave a loud cry and put her poor thin hands before her pale face We both understood what that meant that she had realised to the full her mother’s death so we tried what we could to comfort her Doubtless sympathy eased her somewhat but she was very low in thought and spirit and wept silently and weakly for a long time We told her that either or both of us would now remain with her all the time and that seemed to comfort her Towards dusk she fell into a doze Here a very odd thing occurred Whilst still asleep she took the paper from her breast and tore it in two Van Helsing stepped over and took the pieces from her All the same however she went on with the action of tearing as though the material were still in her hands finally she lifted her hands and opened them as though scattering the fragments Van Helsing seemed surprised and his brows gathered as if in thought but he said nothing
19 September—All last night she slept fitfully being always afraid to sleep and something weaker when she woke from it The Professor and I took it in turns to watch and we never left her for a moment unattended Quincey Morris said nothing about his intention but I knew that all night long he patrolled round and round the house
When the day came its searching light showed the ravages in poor Lucy’s strength She was hardly able to turn her head and the little nourishment which she could take seemed to do her no good At times she slept and both Van Helsing and I noticed the difference in her between sleeping and waking Whilst asleep she looked stronger although more haggard and her breathing was softer her open mouth showed the pale gums drawn back from the teeth which thus looked positively longer and sharper than usual when she woke the softness of her eyes evidently changed the expression for she looked her own self although a dying one In the afternoon she asked for Arthur and we telegraphed for him Quincey went off to meet him at the station
When he arrived it was nearly six o’clock and the sun was setting full and warm and the red light streamed in through the window and gave more colour to the pale cheeks When he saw her Arthur was simply choking with emotion and none of us could speak In the hours that had passed the fits of sleep or the comatose condition that passed for it had grown more frequent so that the pauses when conversation was possible were shortened Arthur’s presence however seemed to act as a stimulant she rallied a little and spoke to him more brightly than she had done since we arrived He too pulled himself together and spoke as cheerily as he could so that the best was made of everything
It was now nearly one o’clock and he and Van Helsing are sitting with her I am to relieve them in a quarter of an hour and I am entering this on Lucy’s phonograph Until six o’clock they are to try to rest I fear that to-morrow will end our watching for the shock has been too great the poor child cannot rally God help us all
Later He has come and gone Oh what a strange meeting and how it all makes my head whirl round I feel like one in a dream Can it be all possible or even a part of it If I had not read Jonathan’s journal first I should never have accepted even a possibility Poor poor dear Jonathan How he must have suffered Please the good God all this may not upset him again I shall try to save him from it but it may be even a consolation and a help to him terrible though it be and awful in its consequences to know for certain that his eyes and ears and brain did not deceive him and that it is all true It may be that it is the doubt which haunts him that when the doubt is removed no matter which waking or dreaming may prove the truth he will be more satisfied and better able to bear the shock Dr Van Helsing must be a good man as well as a clever one if he is Arthur’s friend and Dr Seward’s and if they brought him all the way from Holland to look after Lucy I feel from having seen him that he is good and kind and of a noble nature When he comes to-morrow I shall ask him about Jonathan and then please God all this sorrow and anxiety may lead to a good end I used to think I would like to practise interviewing Jonathan’s friend on “The Exeter News” told him that memory was everything in such work that you must be able to put down exactly almost every word spoken even if you had to refine some of it afterwards Here was a rare interview I shall try to record it verbatim
It was half-past two o’clock when the knock came I took my courage à deux mains and waited In a few minutes Mary opened the door and announced “Dr Van Helsing”
I rose and bowed and he came towards me a man of medium weight strongly built with his shoulders set back over a broad deep chest and a neck well balanced on the trunk as the head is on the neck The poise of the head strikes one at once as indicative of thought and power the head is noble well-sized broad and large behind the ears The face clean-shaven shows a hard square chin a large resolute mobile mouth a good-sized nose rather straight but with quick sensitive nostrils that seem to broaden as the big bushy brows come down and the mouth tightens The forehead is broad and fine rising at first almost straight and then sloping back above two bumps or ridges wide apart such a forehead that the reddish hair cannot possibly tumble over it but falls naturally back and to the sides Big dark blue eyes are set widely apart and are quick and tender or stern with the man’s moods He said to me
“Mrs Harker is it not” I bowed assent
“That was Miss Mina Murray” Again I assented
“It is Mina Murray that I came to see that was friend of that poor dear child Lucy Westenra Madam Mina it is on account of the dead I come”
“Sir” I said “you could have no better claim on me than that you were a friend and helper of Lucy Westenra” And I held out my hand He took it and said tenderly
“Oh Madam Mina I knew that the friend of that poor lily girl must be good but I had yet to learn” He finished his speech with a courtly bow I asked him what it was that he wanted to see me about so he at once began
“I have read your letters to Miss Lucy Forgive me but I had to begin to inquire somewhere and there was none to ask I know that you were with her at Whitby She sometimes kept a diary you need not look surprised Madam Mina it was begun after you had left and was in imitation of you and in that diary she traces by inference certain things to a sleep-walking in which she puts down that you saved her In great perplexity then I come to you and ask you out of your so much kindness to tell me all of it that you can remember”
“I can tell you I think Dr Van Helsing all about it”
“Ah then you have good memory for facts for details It is not always so with young ladies”
“No doctor but I wrote it all down at the time I can show it to you if I like”
“Oh Madam Mina I will be grateful you will do me much favour” I could not resist the temptation of mystifying him a bit I suppose it is some of the taste of the original apple that remains still in our mouths so I handed him the shorthand diary He took it with a grateful bow and said
“May I read it”
“If you wish” I answered as demurely as I could He opened it and for an instant his face fell Then he stood up and bowed
“Oh you so clever woman” he said “I knew long that Mr Jonathan was a man of much thankfulness but see his wife have all the good things And will you not so much honour me and so help me as to read it for me Alas I know not the shorthand” By this time my little joke was over and I was almost ashamed so I took the typewritten copy from my workbasket and handed it to him
“Forgive me” I said “I could not help it but I had been thinking that it was of dear Lucy that you wished to ask and so that you might not have time to wait not on my account but because I know your time must be precious I have written it out on the typewriter for you”
He took it and his eyes glistened “You are so good” he said “And may I read it now I may want to ask you some things when I have read”
“By all means” I said “read it over whilst I order lunch and then you can ask me questions whilst we eat” He bowed and settled himself in a chair with his back to the light and became absorbed in the papers whilst I went to see after lunch chiefly in order that he might not be disturbed When I came back I found him walking hurriedly up and down the room his face all ablaze with excitement He rushed up to me and took me by both hands
“Oh Madam Mina” he said “how can I say what I owe to you This paper is as sunshine It opens the gate to me I am daze I am dazzle with so much light and yet clouds roll in behind the light every time But that you do not cannot comprehend Oh but I am grateful to you you so clever woman Madam” he said this very solemnly “if ever Abraham Van Helsing can do anything for you or yours I trust you will let me know It will be pleasure and delight if I may serve you as a friend as a friend but all I have ever learned all I can ever do shall be for you and those you love There are darknesses in life and there are lights you are one of the lights You will have happy life and good life and your husband will be blessed in you”
“But doctor you praise me too much and and you do not know me”
“Not know you I who am old and who have studied all my life men and women I who have made my specialty the brain and all that belongs to him and all that follow from him And I have read your diary that you have so goodly written for me and which breathes out truth in every line I who have read your so sweet letter to poor Lucy of your marriage and your trust not know you Oh Madam Mina good women tell all their lives and by day and by hour and by minute such things that angels can read and we men who wish to know have in us something of angels’ eyes Your husband is noble nature and you are noble too for you trust and trust cannot be where there is mean nature And your husband tell me of him Is he quite well Is all that fever gone and is he strong and hearty” I saw here an opening to ask him about Jonathan so I said
“He was almost recovered but he has been greatly upset by Mr Hawkins’s death” He interrupted
“Oh yes I know I know I have read your last two letters” I went on
“I suppose this upset him for when we were in town on Thursday last he had a sort of shock”
“A shock and after brain fever so soon That was not good What kind of a shock was it”
“He thought he saw some one who recalled something terrible something which led to his brain fever” And here the whole thing seemed to overwhelm me in a rush The pity for Jonathan the horror which he experienced the whole fearful mystery of his diary and the fear that has been brooding over me ever since all came in a tumult I suppose I was hysterical for I threw myself on my knees and held up my hands to him and implored him to make my husband well again He took my hands and raised me up and made me sit on the sofa and sat by me he held my hand in his and said to me with oh such infinite sweetness
“My life is a barren and lonely one and so full of work that I have not had much time for friendships but since I have been summoned to here by my friend John Seward I have known so many good people and seen such nobility that I feel more than ever and it has grown with my advancing years the loneliness of my life Believe me then that I come here full of respect for you and you have given me hope hope not in what I am seeking of but that there are good women still left to make life happy good women whose lives and whose truths may make good lesson for the children that are to be I am glad glad that I may here be of some use to you for if your husband suffer he suffer within the range of my study and experience I promise you that I will gladly do all for him that I can all to make his life strong and manly and your life a happy one Now you must eat You are overwrought and perhaps over-anxious Husband Jonathan would not like to see you so pale and what he like not where he love is not to his good Therefore for his sake you must eat and smile You have told me all about Lucy and so now we shall not speak of it lest it distress I shall stay in Exeter to-night for I want to think much over what you have told me and when I have thought I will ask you questions if I may And then too you will tell me of husband Jonathan’s trouble so far as you can but not yet You must eat now afterwards you shall tell me all”
After lunch when we went back to the drawing-room he said to me
“And now tell me all about him” When it came to speaking to this great learned man I began to fear that he would think me a weak fool and Jonathan a madman that journal is all so strange and I hesitated to go on But he was so sweet and kind and he had promised to help and I trusted him so I said
“Dr Van Helsing what I have to tell you is so queer that you must not laugh at me or at my husband I have been since yesterday in a sort of fever of doubt you must be kind to me and not think me foolish that I have even half believed some very strange things” He reassured me by his manner as well as his words when he said
“Oh my dear if you only know how strange is the matter regarding which I am here it is you who would laugh I have learned not to think little of any one’s belief no matter how strange it be I have tried to keep an open mind and it is not the ordinary things of life that could close it but the strange things the extraordinary things the things that make one doubt if they be mad or sane”
“Thank you thank you a thousand times You have taken a weight off my mind If you will let me I shall give you a paper to read It is long but I have typewritten it out It will tell you my trouble and Jonathan’s It is the copy of his journal when abroad and all that happened I dare not say anything of it you will read for yourself and judge And then when I see you perhaps you will be very kind and tell me what you think”
“I promise” he said as I gave him the papers “I shall in the morning so soon as I can come to see you and your husband if I may”
“Jonathan will be here at half-past eleven and you must come to lunch with us and see him then you could catch the quick 334 train which will leave you at Paddington before eight” He was surprised at my knowledge of the trains off-hand but he does not know that I have made up all the trains to and from Exeter so that I may help Jonathan in case he is in a hurry
So he took the papers with him and went away and I sit here thinking thinking I don’t know what
The logic is simple no madman’s logic this time jumping from tussock to tussock in a misty bog If it be not true then proof will be relief at worst it will not harm If it be true Ah there is the dread yet very dread should help my cause for in it is some need of belief Come I tell you what I propose first that we go off now and see that child in the hospital Dr Vincent of the North Hospital where the papers say the child is is friend of mine and I think of yours since you were in class at Amsterdam He will let two scientists see his case if he will not let two friends We shall tell him nothing but only that we wish to learn And then
And then He took a key from his pocket and held it up And then we spend the night you and I in the churchyard where Lucy lies This is the key that lock the tomb I had it from the coffin-man to give to Arthur My heart sank within me for I felt that there was some fearful ordeal before us I could do nothing however so I plucked up what heart I could and said that we had better hasten as the afternoon was passing
We found the child awake It had had a sleep and taken some food and altogether was going on well Dr Vincent took the bandage from its throat and showed us the punctures There was no mistaking the similarity to those which had been on Lucy’s throat They were smaller and the edges looked fresher that was all We asked Vincent to what he attributed them and he replied that it must have been a bite of some animal perhaps a rat but for his own part he was inclined to think that it was one of the bats which are so numerous on the northern heights of London Out of so many harmless ones he said there may be some wild specimen from the South of a more malignant species Some sailor may have brought one home and it managed to escape or even from the Zoological Gardens a young one may have got loose or one be bred there from a vampire These things do occur you know Only ten days ago a wolf got out and was I believe traced up in this direction For a week after the children were playing nothing but Red Riding Hood on the Heath and in every alley in the place until this ‘bloofer lady’ scare came along since when it has been quite a gala-time with them Even this poor little mite when he woke up to-day asked the nurse if he might go away When she asked him why he wanted to go he said he wanted to play with the ‘bloofer lady’
I hope said Van Helsing that when you are sending the child home you will caution its parents to keep strict watch over it These fancies to stray are most dangerous and if the child were to remain out another night it would probably be fatal But in any case I suppose you will not let it away for some days
Certainly not not for a week at least longer if the wound is not healed
Our visit to the hospital took more time than we had reckoned on and the sun had dipped before we came out When Van Helsing saw how dark it was he said
There is no hurry It is more late than I thought Come let us seek somewhere that we may eat and then we shall go on our way
We dined at “Jack Straw’s Castle” along with a little crowd of bicyclists and others who were genially noisy About ten o’clock we started from the inn It was then very dark and the scattered lamps made the darkness greater when we were once outside their individual radius The Professor had evidently noted the road we were to go for he went on unhesitatingly but as for me I was in quite a mixup as to locality As we went further we met fewer and fewer people till at last we were somewhat surprised when we met even the patrol of horse police going their usual suburban round At last we reached the wall of the churchyard which we climbed over With some little difficulty for it was very dark and the whole place seemed so strange to us we found the Westenra tomb The Professor took the key opened the creaky door and standing back politely but quite unconsciously motioned me to precede him There was a delicious irony in the offer in the courtliness of giving preference on such a ghastly occasion My companion followed me quickly and cautiously drew the door to after carefully ascertaining that the lock was a falling and not a spring one In the latter case we should have been in a bad plight Then he fumbled in his bag and taking out a matchbox and a piece of candle proceeded to make a light The tomb in the day-time and when wreathed with fresh flowers had looked grim and gruesome enough but now some days afterwards when the flowers hung lank and dead their whites turning to rust and their greens to browns when the spider and the beetle had resumed their accustomed dominance when time-discoloured stone and dust-encrusted mortar and rusty dank iron and tarnished brass and clouded silver-plating gave back the feeble glimmer of a candle the effect was more miserable and sordid than could have been imagined It conveyed irresistibly the idea that life animal life was not the only thing which could pass away
Van Helsing went about his work systematically Holding his candle so that he could read the coffin plates and so holding it that the sperm dropped in white patches which congealed as they touched the metal he made assurance of Lucy’s coffin Another search in his bag and he took out a turnscrew
What are you going to do I asked
To open the coffin You shall yet be convinced Straightway he began taking out the screws and finally lifted off the lid showing the casing of lead beneath The sight was almost too much for me It seemed to be as much an affront to the dead as it would have been to have stripped off her clothing in her sleep whilst living I actually took hold of his hand to stop him He only said You shall see and again fumbling in his bag took out a tiny fret-saw Striking the turnscrew through the lead with a swift downward stab which made me wince he made a small hole which was however big enough to admit the point of the saw I had expected a rush of gas from the week-old corpse We doctors who have had to study our dangers have to become accustomed to such things and I drew back towards the door But the Professor never stopped for a moment he sawed down a couple of feet along one side of the lead coffin and then across and down the other side Taking the edge of the loose flange he bent it back towards the foot of the coffin and holding up the candle into the aperture motioned to me to look
I drew near and looked The coffin was empty
It was certainly a surprise to me and gave me a considerable shock but Van Helsing was unmoved He was now more sure than ever of his ground and so emboldened to proceed in his task Are you satisfied now friend John he asked
I felt all the dogged argumentativeness of my nature awake within me as I answered him
I am satisfied that Lucy’s body is not in that coffin but that only proves one thing
And what is that friend John
That it is not there
That is good logic he said so far as it goes But how do you how can you account for it not being there
Perhaps a body-snatcher I suggested Some of the undertaker’s people may have stolen it I felt that I was speaking folly and yet it was the only real cause which I could suggest The Professor sighed Ah well he said we must have more proof Come with me
He put on the coffin-lid again gathered up all his things and placed them in the bag blew out the light and placed the candle also in the bag We opened the door and went out Behind us he closed the door and locked it He handed me the key saying Will you keep it You had better be assured I laughed it was not a very cheerful laugh I am bound to say as I motioned him to keep it A key is nothing I said there may be duplicates and anyhow it is not difficult to pick a lock of that kind He said nothing but put the key in his pocket Then he told me to watch at one side of the churchyard whilst he would watch at the other I took up my place behind a yew-tree and I saw his dark figure move until the intervening headstones and trees hid it from my sight
It was a lonely vigil Just after I had taken my place I heard a distant clock strike twelve and in time came one and two I was chilled and unnerved and angry with the Professor for taking me on such an errand and with myself for coming I was too cold and too sleepy to be keenly observant and not sleepy enough to betray my trust so altogether I had a dreary miserable time
Suddenly as I turned round I thought I saw something like a white streak moving between two dark yew-trees at the side of the churchyard farthest from the tomb at the same time a dark mass moved from the Professor’s side of the ground and hurriedly went towards it Then I too moved but I had to go round headstones and railed-off tombs and I stumbled over graves The sky was overcast and somewhere far off an early cock crew A little way off beyond a line of scattered juniper-trees which marked the pathway to the church a white dim figure flitted in the direction of the tomb The tomb itself was hidden by trees and I could not see where the figure disappeared I heard the rustle of actual movement where I had first seen the white figure and coming over found the Professor holding in his arms a tiny child When he saw me he held it out to me and said
Are you satisfied now
No I said in a way that I felt was aggressive
Do you not see the child
Yes it is a child but who brought it here And is it wounded I asked
We shall see said the Professor and with one impulse we took our way out of the churchyard he carrying the sleeping child
When we had got some little distance away we went into a clump of trees and struck a match and looked at the child’s throat It was without a scratch or scar of any kind
Was I right I asked triumphantly
We were just in time said the Professor thankfully
We had now to decide what we were to do with the child and so consulted about it If we were to take it to a police-station we should have to give some account of our movements during the night at least we should have had to make some statement as to how we had come to find the child So finally we decided that we would take it to the Heath and when we heard a policeman coming would leave it where he could not fail to find it we would then seek our way home as quickly as we could All fell out well At the edge of Hampstead Heath we heard a policeman’s heavy tramp and laying the child on the pathway we waited and watched until he saw it as he flashed his lantern to and fro We heard his exclamation of astonishment and then we went away silently By good chance we got a cab near the “Spaniards” and drove to town
I cannot sleep so I make this entry But I must try to get a few hours’ sleep as Van Helsing is to call for me at noon He insists that I shall go with him on another expedition